Let's now move on to look at the two functions used to rank data in Excel ranked body Q and
drank,
not TVG 06 Manipulating numbers that's open zero.
Find the rank function variations.
One simple way of Rankin data is to sort the data in descending order.
But what the rank functions enable you to do is to display the rank permanently,
regardless of the sort order.
In this example,
we're analyzing how good each of our account handlers is.
It close in sales.
We want to rank them by what this company calls the clothes factor.
So let's begin by calculating the clothes factor.
And it's simply the number of hours taken to close sales divided by the revenue.
And because this will be a fairly small number,
let's have five significant digits.
So to do that,
we'll use the round.
Function around function allows you to specify the number of decimals to which in number is
rounded.
It takes two arguments.
Festival the number which in this case will be see two divided by G two and secondly,
the number of digits.
And let's say,
because this number is very small,
we'll have five decimal places says a calculator on clothes factor.
It's going to be equals round see to divided by G two coma number of digits.
Fine,
and I've already formatted this column to display by personal places.
On That,
of course,
is done.
Using these two buttons increased decimal on decrease decibel,
so we can now copy this down.
We now have a thing that we want to rank before we create our final two formulas.
Let's create some named ranges,
which we can then refer to in our formulas.
We'll highlight the three columns that we're interested in using control.
Click and then in formulas.
I mean years in the defined names group we use create from selection talk right and these
around you names.
So now let's discuss the rank function.
The rank function takes three arguments.
First of all,
you specify the number that you want to rang,
which in our case will be G two because I'm formula is on road to will be referenced in the
second row of the Revenue column.
The second perimeter reference allows you to specify the range in which your position in
the number than use pacified.
And that's the column that we've named revenue.
The sad argument is the order will the highest item the standing.
The third argument is the orders.
The third argument is optional,
and that's the order.
This allows you to specify whether you want to treat The items is being sorted in
descending order,
which is the default on which is easy in descending order,
which is the default what is indicated by zero or ascend in order.
Lowest first.
That's indicated by one you know,
scenario.
We want one because the lower in our scenario we need one ascending order because the lower
the closed time,
the better because the lower the close time,
the better has moved across to the other worksheet we have in this workbook e que verses A
B G.
And let's look at the two flavors off the rank function.
I'm gonna put some figures in the first column,
which is what we'll be ranking and let's just copy those down so clearly 10 is the highest
figure it will have a rank of one.
One is the lowest.
It will have a rank of 10 equals rank que.
The number is a two common on the reference is that whole columns from A to bounce 11 and
then I'll press at Ford to make that into an absolute reference.
We get the anticipated results,
and then we can just copy this formula and paste it for the A V G version and we get
exactly the same formula.
So the difference between these two comes into play when we have ties.
So if we put in two sevens,
for example,
we can now see the difference with rank e que.
We now have two items.
Time for fourth place with rank A V G.
We have an average figure,
so both of the force place items were indicated is 4.5 rather than fall.
And this difference really comes into play when you're performing operations on the rank
Colin itself.
So we put a total for these two columns.
You'll see that with Frankie Que.
Whenever you have ties,
the total number within the Rank column will decrease by one.
Where's with rain?
Cave E G.
That total number will never change.
So if you perform in operations on the Rank column,
it's usually better to use rank a VG,
and that's what we'll need.
In this particular example,
have been calculated the close rank.
We intend to go on to calculate the clothes status,
which will make fast,
medium or slow.
And although they can't be very much in it,
we should get slightly more accurate results that we use ranked.
What a BCG,
as opposed to run buddy here so close rank will simply be equals ranked on a beauty and our
number parameter will be the clothes factor indeed to comma.
And then from reference,
we can use the named range close factor.
Coleman and then for our purposes will need ascending or one because the lower the clothes
factor the better.
Because obviously a low close factor indicates fewer sales hours and therefore less time
taking to close the deal.
And that's our formula.
So we can see immediately that no point normal 150 is not unique.
Let's calm me down.
So wherever you see a decimal,
that means we have a tie in.
Close factor column on,
By the way,
we can change the clothes factor 2%.
I think it probably will look better as a percentage and then increase the number of
decimals.
So,
of course,
if we now sort by the close factor column.
Small is the largest we can now see which company takes the few.
It's ours too close relative to the revenue that we generate from them.
We can see that because we use in rank believe e g.
Wherever there's a tie,
we get the average position.
So now let's move on to the close status.
And here we just want the words fast,
medium or slow.
And rather than basing this on the clothes factory sold were simply going to base it on the
rank.
So I will say that the top third will have passed the middle third medium and the Bolton
said,
slow to calculate the clothes status.
We use an if statement,
and for a logical test,
we can check to see whether the close rank in E to is greater than or equal to the maximum
close rank divided by three multiplied by two.
This means that the close rank is in the bottom three.
Obviously,
the highest number is the poorest rank.
If that's the case,
the value true will be the word slow.
And if it's no,
the value of false will be supplied by a nested.
If statement.
This time we'll test to see,
but they close rank in E to is greater than or equal to the maximum close rank divided by
three.
If it is,
since we know that it's not in the highest ranking numbers,
this puts it in the middle and therefore will assign it value media it both our first and
second logical tests proved to be false.
Then the cattle value it falls will kick in.
And that means that our ranks are in the low numbers.
The bottom third,
which means that we want the word fast.
So let's create our final function.
And for this we can expand the formula bar,
so we need equals.
If the first test is to see whether the clothes ranging E to is greater than or equal to
the maximum close rank and it seems I start time,
it comes up in the list and we can just select it in press tab to insert it divided by
three multiplied by two to target the tops.
Third,
if it is high number in the case,
a slow closed time.
So although enter and we put the word slowed coma well,
Santa and then the value false is supplied by our nested.
If old enter a logical test,
we can copy from the first,
permitting the multiplied by two,
which means that we're now very fine,
that the close rank is greater than or equal to the top,
said Coma.
And thinking about it equal to isn't really required.
You just want greater than that.
So there's take these equal signs out,
although enter if they're in the middle,
said we won't medium comma old hands,
huh?
And then our cattle value false will be fast indicating there in the bottom,
said the lowest numbers,
or enter close in parenthesis for the next.
It if enclosed in parenthesis for the outer is so when we can't be down because I still
have the data sorted by close factor.
I can see the top.
There is fast.
The middle of that is medium animals of that is slow